Although I was very much personally involved in
what I was doing outside
the press, it was obvious that there was a lot of
turmoil going on, but I did my all-power best to
stay out of it. That's the mark. We had that
ministry. Yeah. Let's
say now, when Mary Miller comes, was there a, did
you sense at that point, some kind of a relief?
Well, I should say that in 1990, I moved from the
editorial department to the marketing
department, so I suddenly had a completely
different perspective of everything. Now, at
that point, in terms of marketing, your time
was...
I had so many different titles. I noticed
everybody got kind of a soft federal title. Yeah,
because at the time, when I left the editorial
department, I was the associate editor. And when I
had decided to move over here, both of the two young
women working in the marketing department had
both quit simultaneously. That was Marilyn Gaeta
and Sarah Oates. And so I basically took the best
parts of both of those jobs
and made it. And we got one job out of it. And so I was
primarily doing publicity, and we had a several
year attempt
to have me acquire and develop reissue books,
which I wasn't particularly interested in doing
it, but it had to be done. So I was supposed to do
that. Second edition? Yeah, reissues and
paperback,
that type of thing. We've never really had a
paperback policy that's been approved. I really
don't. At the time that I was supposed to be
acquiring the issues, Mark and me worked on
developing guidelines for what we could and
couldn't do. It was a great deal of work that had
nothing whatsoever to do with the other work that
we were doing, that I was doing. Completely
different. You know, it's like in the middle of the
day, you know,
that hat would be switching off and on. It was
tough. Well,
I didn't actually get any responsibility in the
advertising media planning until a couple of
years ago when Marianne was in the marketing
department. She did all of the advertising
planning and she did all the advertising design.
Joan does the advertising design now, but I do all
the rest of it. Now, how do you relate to the, what is
our big picture of publicity promotion? What do
you do? Tell me, what do you do to make the press, I
mean, let's say the conceptual program of the
United States press? Well, whenever the editors
are getting in new manuscripts and looking at
them, frequently they'll do a pre-contract
circulation. And at that point, Gail passes it to
the people in the marketing department, and I look
at it and I try to give an opinion as to whether it's
going to have a scholarly or trade audience.
especially if it has a trade audience, if there are
special things that we need to do, would need to do
in advance, like get endorsements, budget extra
money for advance proof, budget extra money for
photographs.
And then I would also, later on, determine how many
advance proof were needed and who should get them.
We should get them. And I've developed the review
list and I write them as releases. And I contact,
you know, certain
individuals.
Yeah.
And that, of course, is .
Yeah, it just depends on . Yeah, and it's always, it
becomes touchy
say if it's a book that is really popular and a lot of
people want it, we'll just get hordes of requests
come in and you have to winnow through them and
decide. Okay, how do they know to request that
book? Well, we send, when we send out our seasonal
catalog, I have a media database and I send it out to
people. Okay, so that catalog is going to that, you
know, those people in the 90s? Yeah, they'll get
through that. Yeah. And all of this, though,
maybe I'd want to emphasize that even the reason
that I shifted from editorial to marketing is
because I like copywriting a great deal.
Copywriting is so completely
different from being a writer because it's just
wordsmithing. It's very technical, but it's the
one skill I have that I have very high confidence
in. So I write all the new books and add copy and
sometimes I try to come up with new titles for the
books. Write little invitations and little
headlines for the ads. The president's giving a
copy of one of our books to the graduation speaker.
He doesn't have a sentence to say with it. They call
us, and I can't think of a sentence for it. Yeah,
you're the writer. You're the person who goes
through it. Yeah, and we do a little season-long
newsletter also
that I'm the untitled editor of the newsletter,
which I pretty much...
Now, were there any significant changes
in organization ? None that affected me. OK.
That's all. How about with ? The main one that I
vocally pushed for the gala was that Marianne had
moved over into the design and production area.
And so I was going to be taking over the advertising
planning. And at that point, I said, acquiring
these reissues is so
Acquiring the reissue, it's so time consuming to
try to do it right. It's always a struggle to get it
under the wire. And since it's so completely
different than marketing, it seems like it's more
suitable to have it back in editorial. And at the
time, there was new staff members over there that
seemed interested in doing it. suggested that
gail asked tom to put that back in that
tutorial
yeah someone's already brought that up to me
Did you see any change in the pace of activity,
production level, individual style, or anything
like that? Well, I would say there was kind of a big
difference. When Mary came here, she seemed
interested in having everyone work together as a
team. And whenever a meeting was held, everyone
attended the meeting. means
can be time-consuming, and most of it had very
little to do with what I was doing. So it was
somewhat of a relief to me that when Tom came
aboard, he seemed to have a much more hierarchical
style and would deal directly with the department
heads who would take information to their staff,
and so we didn't have to attend so many meetings
anymore. But she didn't have an appointment with
her? She couldn't. Well, and she also, I mean, it
was, I think, you know, everyone was kind of
horrified at the prospect that she made us go on to
that retreat in the woods. Yeah. Just, I guess, our
feelings and all that. Yeah. What she had, you
know. I mean, it's all right, because there's lots
of traditional friction, I'm sure, every press
that crops up between departments. And the one
that marketing always remembers is that people
from other departments say that marketing always
gets to go to these fun parties and to go places out
of town. The problem with that is that part of
attending the party or attending the out-of-town
exhibit is hauling many tons of equipment and
books and equipment through the hotel laundry and
kitchen and up the great elevator with the staff
who can't speak English and can't tell you where to
go or what floor to get off on. So that type of stuff
is hard work.
Do you see, what direction do
you see the, I don't know, if you think, in your
experience at Texas A&M, What is that? What are the
strengths
and
weaknesses of this press? Where can we go? How are
we going? Well, that's a big question. Well, it
relates to the reception that
Mrs.
Ford, right? First time this month. Look
at that. To the reception
at the back of
the Gimbel, I've got all kinds of redoubts.
Basically, the one redoubt is, how do we know what
to do here? What did the election trust do for you in
the first place?
Well, this, of course, is the research
institution. And I assume that means that the
faculty are going to be judged for tenure on the
basis
of what they produce, depending on what
department they're in, of course. But we're here
to, as our traditional mission is, to disseminate
scholarship. be their their connection to the
world one of the main things i think that
especially in marketing that if we have to provide
a little a little dose of reality because a lot of
books that come in whose authors work very hard on
it and it's very enthusiastic and believes that
everyone wants to buy a copy and read it and the very
sad thing is that that most people do not read books
even that they borrow from the library and they
certainly do not buy books and i'm talking about
the general public so when so we we're in a position
to say this is very good work that you've done you
know it will make a tremendous contribution to
scholarship but the interested audience is not
large. You're doing a great service to a select
group of
people. And it's our job to be able to identify when
there is going to be a larger group of people that's
both interested and that is reachable. Because
the key is in reaching them. If there's no direct
mail list for the identified
audience, you're not going to be able to reach them
with any surety. Do you see, from your perspective
now, independent marketing, what kind of books
What
kind
of books do you do best? I mean, what discipline?
Yeah. Character. Yes. What are our good books?
Successful books. Definitely. I admire you.
Thank you. I mean,
I personally, I gave success by, you know, what
kind of reviews it gets. Some books get almost no
reviews, and some books get a smattering of sort of
positive and sort of negative reviews. And so to
me, a successful book is one that wins a lot of
awards, gets the vast majority of reviews are very
good, and might not necessarily sell very many
copies. But the awards and the reviews and what the
author does after that was also really fun.
Because we had one author that... published a book
with us. It probably would have a limited
audience, but it got some really nice reviews in
some prominent places. And as a result of that, two
other publishing companies or one other
publishing company called his author and said,
we're going to contract you to do another book for
us. That's success. That's success. It really is.
Or if the author gets a commercial house contract
after publishing this. It's too bad we wouldn't be
publishing ourselves, but that shows that the
first book was a success. Well, you know, our
university is a nation of publishers,
in a
way. Now, in terms of the publishing business, the
market's getting tougher. Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely. And part of it is I remember Gail and I
talking about some project that I don't remember
at one time, and we were talking about its
audience, and I said, well, this seems like a book
mostly for an older audience. And she said, well,
if you go through our individual customer
records, most of them are considerably older
people. And when I look at young people around
them, And even people who are almost as old as I am
who tell me, and these are people with college
educations who are in graduate school or have
graduate degrees, and they say,
I don't read. I never buy books, and I never read.
And it tells me that anyone who Because any younger
than I am is not going to be oriented toward books at
all. They're just oriented toward, you know, TVs
and computers. And when we get our student
interns, you know, they're even here working, you
know, expressing their interest in working in the
publishing house. We get them back in the
marketing department, and they just want to work
on the website. YOU KNOW, THEY'RE NOT INTERESTED
IN A SMALL, YOU KNOW, ACCUMULATION OF TASKS THAT
WILL LEAD TO SOME KIND OF SUCCESS. THEY REALLY ONLY
SEEM TO GET EXCITED ABOUT THAT WHEN THEY
GET READY.
So that means that the future is going to be more
covering than the present is. Well, I don't have a
reputation as being a bright, shiny optimist.
Yeah, I don't see it getting any bigger. I really
have to put it in a different way. Maybe I'll have to
abandon it for a while. Well, yeah, I'm not saying
it never does. The
economics of it get harder and harder and harder.
Well, I should get more.
Well, that's what I . Part of it is external. I think
you're being looked
at.
You had money. We had money. And why not privatize
it? That doesn't work. You have the rights. No,
they're quite, I think, I know I've heard of which
one of the big, bigger viewers
of the Press is it? Maybe California was,
California has lost, I think, a lot of, you know, a
lot of journals. Yeah. Who's that business based?
Well, I know this. The state of California, you
know, just... You know, slashed everyone so
severely.
I can't imagine
the president would have escaped that. And I
didn't know I was going to be in California, but the
7th and 8th, they got 100 people. They said, coming
down here, they're going to get kind of shocked. It
was a little dingy, but a very small place. They
were probably close to 100 people.
I
really,
at this point,
have no opinion about that. I just use what we have
at the time. It was easier to have an opinion like
that in the editorial rather than some types of
projects. Well, I couldn't pick it, you know,
because I was only in a copy of its new section of it.
Some projects were of more interest or somehow
more gratifying, or some authors were easier to
over-direct than others. But there are still
certain projects that produce a great sense of
satisfaction.
And I suppose each person
has a . Oh, yeah, depending on what it is. Lloyd
Lyman used to tell me I was only interested in
pointy-headed British literary stuff. But in
actual fact, in all the years I've worked here,
involved I got in any project was the East of Chosin
book, which was the Korean War Frontlines. And
that one, you know, and I even, you know, had
contact with that after I moved into marketing
because frequently when people write in or call in
looking for the author, and it gets fed back to the
publicity area. And I would have to say that that
one book produced more, quote, fan mail or calls
and letters than almost all the others combined.
You know, I even had a minister called one day and
just wanted to read me something from the magazine
that had to do, that mentioned that book. And the
minister just talked on and on about, you
know, the profound meaning it had for these
people. And actually, I think, you know, a lot of
that is timing and timing is not something you
necessarily like. Oh, no.
Well, I
don't know.
I wasn't here for the entire experience of it
because The beginning of it apparently had this
special quality. Yeah, yeah. Whereas now it's
more,
you know, it's just kind of a basic process.
Well, anyway, thank you. Okay. Okay. Did Linda
Collins tell you the story about the post office
box? I told her to do that. No, no, tell me. There was
some kind of confusion last week
about that. The press has always had the address of
4C, the call station, and the press. The woman just
said, Tom asked her to call the post office and ask
them. And it turned out that there is no such thing
as floor C. And then it turns out that there never
has been. But that when Frank Wardlaw, when
arrangements were being made to start the press,
and Frank Wardlaw would come, he said, I need a
place to get mail. And the university was going to
set him up in the post office box for floor C. But
then, apparently, before he even got here, after
he'd already commissioned Tom Lee to make that
letterhead with the address in it, the university
called and said something about, well, you're not
going to have the post office vouchers, and you're
stuck with this man. And he supposedly said, well,
I've already had his artwork commissioned. And I
found this out on Friday, last Friday, that there
never was a drawer scene. And so I'm assuming, you
know, if Frank Wardlaw, and he's so legendary, I
just had the idea, well, Frank Wardlaw had the
drawer scene, and since it was his, you can't
partner with him. Although we have parted with it
now. Yeah, we deleted it off of our, we were working
on our sale catalog. So they said, well, you know,
you really don't need to use your seed. In fact,
it confuses the campus mail or something. I guess
they look for it over there. I don't know.
I guess Linda knows the full story of that. Linda or
Gail at one or the other. I thought it was so funny
that...
Very good. I appreciate your time. Okay. And I
assume you're... I
just do what I'm .